today we're going to talk about why it
is you might not be growing on Instagram
right which is incredibly frustrating
I'm going to share with you the seven
most common mistakes reasons why you
might not be growing the average social
media user is trying to follow fewer
people because they find that they're
overwhelmed they're trying to consume
less content how many of you are trying
to consume more content or less content
most people are trying to consume less
content because they've got a lot to do
they want to move their business forward
they want to create their own content so
they're trying to consume less content
it can make us feel very chaotic and it
can make us feel overwhelmed and so I'm
telling you this because you shouldn't
be beating yourself up if your Instagram
just isn't growing at the pace it maybe
once did or even at the pace that we
once saw Instagram accounts growing very
fast right and that is because frankly
supply and demand there is a lot there's
a huge supply and the demand is lower
we're we're starting to realize like I
don't want to consume as much content
what does that mean for you it means you
do not want to you can't afford to be
making any of these mistakes it means
you have to have things buttoned up
because even if people see your content
they're not always guaranteed they're
going to follow you but we want to have
them you to get on their radar we want
them to to like just take a second look
to take a moment to say like is it is
this person someone
who I should follow and even if we can
get them to stay on your even if they
don't follow you guys this is what we
know even if we can get them to look at
your content a little longer even if
they don't follow Instagram is likely to
put your content in front of them again
and then you're more likely to get that
follow so let's make sure you're not
making any of these mistakes so that we
can Safeguard your ability to get more
follows right so here are the biggest
mistakes number one is not having a
clear Niche now I like to replace the
word Niche with subject because
sometimes the word Niche really fre
freaks people out they like what is well
my Niche is this but but I what I post
about is this I just mean if it's not
really clear to people the general
subject matter upon which you you post
about it's just not going to get you a
follow it might have people watching
your real it might have people looking
at your content but they're not likely
going to follow and this is really
important probably one of the biggest
mistakes that we see see see people
making they're it's like step one of
Instagram growth is picking a subject
picking a group of subjects that relate
to one specific Niche so people know the
kind of content that you're good for it
becomes your brand yet 97% of our new IC
members have not picked like a subject
matter they haven't picked a specific
Niche to post about so what happens when
we don't have a niche and you've
probably heard this before but I want to
reiterate it that if you don't have a
clear Niche but you've got a great piece
of content let's say you just posted up
this incredible piece of content of you
making a high protein delicious dessert
that you can whip up in five minutes and
somebody this is what we do we're like
oh that looks so good oh my I I have
such a sweet tooth and I'm having a hard
time getting enough protein in so now
I'm going to go look at this person's
page and then when I go look at their
page what I'm seeing is um their A
Mother's Day post with their mom I'm
also seeing uh a crafting project and
I'm seeing some beautiful pictures from
their vacation and also I'm seeing some
reals where I can't even tell what it's
about but I'm looking at the thumbnail
and I'm like it doesn't seem like it's
about food I don't know it maybe it is
about food but like looking at the
thumbnail the cover art doesn't look
like it's about food so you've got
literally a split second for people to
look at your page and say yes or no and
if I look at your page and I don't see
more of what I just saw you're not
getting a follow but for most people
they're they're just not picking that
you haven't picked a subject matter
you're all over the place because Niche
is one of I find we find one of the
hardest things for people to like like
really decide here's the thing I need to
post about now let's talk about your
profile setup because this is probably
the second biggest mistake that people
make and that is their profile is isn't
set up correctly you've if you do a poor
job of setting up your profile when I
find that piece of content because this
is how the follow happens people see a
piece of content they're like this is
interesting I would like to see more of
this they click on your profile and the
first thing they look at is your photo
and then your username maybe more
importantly look they're looking at the
name and Title Here on the screen um
where it says over 50 health and fitness
expert this is my name and title that is
searchable that also shows up my it
doesn't say shelene if I send you a DM
it will say over 50 health and fitness
expert so if you're not following me go
to in open up your phone go to Instagram
right now and just send me a direct
message and I want you to see how my
name shows up underneath me under my
image what it is I post about shows up
and that's my Niche now underneath that
is my bio my bio needs to match the
content that this person has just seen
does that make sense so if they've just
seen a piece of content from me that is
about
um uh snowboarding right they've just
seen like like me going through powder
and they're like I need I want to follow
more female snowboarders so they then
they go and look at my profile and if
they just read that what I post about is
how to maintain your health how to feel
vibrant and energetic and build more
muscle after 50 they're like that's not
what I'm looking for I'm looking for
snowboarding content so I'm not going to
get a follow so in other words your
content needs to align with your profile
your profile is is it's kind of
reinforcing to people what it is that
you post about that is the only area
that is searchable the area where it is
your name and title word by searchable I
mean search engine optimized if you go
to look at my profile you see how I have
put Pio get more steps reduce cellulite
I've put words over my thumbnails are
you trying to attract people who are
over 35 because you have to
remember people are looking at your
images on their phones right it's very
very tiny so if I'm looking at just a
video I don't know what it's
about make it really easy for people to
glance at your page and know what the
heck you post about do you see how big
the words are over my thumbnails it says
knee pain castor oil um the
Afterparty more
steps collagen powder like you you can
you you glance at my page and you're
like oh this is all about health and
fitness over 50 right or health and
fitness for any woman who wants to
transition into that second stage of her
life so I highly recommend that you
start using like simplify it now if
these were just all videos work with me
for a second are you following along so
what I'm asking for someone to do if
there's no thumbnail that does that
tells you what the real is about if I'm
not putting big bold words across it
like they do on YouTube then I'm
assuming someone has enough time to
watch like six of my videos to figure
out what subject matters I post
about no way people don't have that kind
of time they don't care people don't
have time they do not have time to do
that kind of thing anymore so it's
really important you save people time so
that at a quick glance I can go like oh
she talks about walking and fitness and
getting more steps in and oil pulling
and uh belly bloat Mobility okay yeah
this is what I'm looking for if I can't
tell what it's what you post about I'm
out I'm busy I already I'm already
following too many people make it easy
for people okay the next biggest mistake
that people make is just being
completely inconsistent right um and I
get it you know I always say this when I
do a training I I think what's more
important than being consistent is your
mental health so you're like it's
killing me I just I can't post one more
time this week or you know it's between
this and going to my son's graduation
and enjoying
it life is short like people first
posting second but if we're looking at
why an account isn't growing it's
inconsistency so the more consistently
you
post and that also includes your stories
right now so we are seeing some kind of
interesting conflicting information
about story
we're seeing that some people are still
getting a ton of traction by posting
multiple times per day on their stories
and that I would be one of those people
and and Brock is finding out and many of
our other members who we've pulled are
finding that when they post less to
their
stories they're getting a better view on
their stories but remember views on your
stories are only coming from people who
already follow you so if you're trying
to grow listen to what I'm about to say
I really need you to pay attention to
this if you're trying to grow on
Instagram
and you need to prioritize your time
because you're only one person you can
only do so much pop
quiz which place is going to get you
more followers posting to your stories
or posting to your feed you got to post
your feed so I know this is true of me
sometimes I'm like oh gosh it only take
me a second to post my stories but it
doesn't I got to look up the link I got
to align the I got to hit caption I got
to wait for it to transcribe know and it
takes like four or five minutes even
just to post your story sometimes so I
have to remind myself like okay if my
goal is to help and reach more people if
I want to make a bigger impact with
women then I need to think about how I'm
using my time and even though it feels
easier to post to my stories if I really
want to reach new people I've got to
prioritize my time and maybe post less
to my stories and more to my feed and
that's what I chose to do in the last
three months and my account went from
stagnant like I could not grow from over
750 to save my life and it's because I
was posting a couple times a week I
wasn't prioritizing growth now I'm PRI
prioritizing growth and I'm already at I
think
81 as of today let's see yeah 811 by the
way Shameless plug for our Instagram
coaching program if you're not familiar
with it I highly recommend you check it
out we always have specials going I will
put a link at the top of my show
description so you can check out insta
clubhub and um see for yourself how it
is we help people to massively grow
their Instagrams inconsistency it's a
big one you need to post more often the
consistency is so important um and it's
just a practice here's here's another
thing we're seeing happening on
Instagram and that is a less produced
real we're finding that Instagram and
other platforms are really
favoring content that isn't so highly
edited now it still needs a hook it's
still you still need to grab people's
attention in a matter of one like less
than a second but we are find you don't
have to have as many jump Cuts as many
fancy Graphics Etc it is much more
people are looking for authenticity and
longer
content longer content we think this is
going to be a trend so keep an eye out
for that I personally I find that to be
refreshing I I feel overwhelmed by the
like every single swipe is a new piece
of content and a new reel and a crazy
transition and editing and captions and
flying logos and and all these things
where I'm like what even is this you
know and so I'm I'm really excited about
the fact that this is the way we're
trending so get ahead of it okay this
one is going to sting a little bit the
bad
content bad content so even though we're
less produced content is seeming to kind
of take hold right
now that doesn't mean that you can have
poor content and things that are
categorized as poor content would be
poor lighting poor audio no hook an
unclear point to the content like what's
the point of the content is it to make
me laugh is it to be entertaining is it
to educate is it to make me comment is
it to make me think like what's the
point of the content is it worth
people's time okay so even though we're
seeing a trend towards less highly
produced content it still needs to be um
like really good and this is not like
something some of you want to hear but
the truth is it's harder there's so much
more competition right everybody H and
and your grandma has an Instagram
account maybe multiple accounts we're
all trying to consume less content so
that means we're trying to spend less
time on Instagram and then there's Tik
Tok and then there's YouTube and then
there's X and then there's LinkedIn and
then there's you you know YouTube shorts
there's all these places so people's
time is divided that means if you have
an opportunity to snag someone's
attention for a split second listen it
still has to be good you still have to
have a hook it still has to be bright it
bright content is one of the probably
most important things I can tell you you
need to do with your content I see so
many people who it's like it's really
it's poorly lit invest in a light if
you're going to talk directly to your
camera use things that people are
attracted to it doesn't have to be
highly produced but it still has to be
great content also that would include
are you posting on your Niche so there's
um this weekend I did a little
survey of some of the bigger accounts
that I follow some of the accounts that
are over 1 million followers
I looked at accounts I had over 500,000
followers and I wanted to see which ones
accounts I've been following for a very
long time and I want to see which of
these accounts is still getting a lot of
traction and which ones have fallen off
right and what I noticed is that there
are some accounts that you would swear
that they bought their followers because
I I seriously I looked at an account
that had over 500,000 followers and they
had eight likes and I'm like has this
person bought their following I mean
this is the only way that I could just
understand like why they would have so
few likes right but as I scrolled
through their content I'm like they have
so few likes because their content is
horrible it's off Niche it's all over
the place it has bad audio bad lighting
they're inconsistent and when that
happens when you're not using hooks when
you're not using closed captions listen
to what I'm about to say you guys when
you do that it's not as
sticky so even your existing followers
they might see that and they're like
they might have seen it and they didn't
like it if they don't like it Instagram
shows it to fewer people and then that
same content creator is like you know
I'm just going to double down on what
was working for me like three years ago
and then they post something else and
even fewer of their followers like the
content it can it feels like a shadow
ban it's not a shadow ban this is just
Instagram saying like sorry people don't
like this it's not worth people's time
so Instagram Instagram knows that we
don't want to spend a lot of time on the
app they're not going to risk putting a
piece of content in front of any of us
that doesn't hold our attention listen
to what I just said it's got to be good
it's so important it's got to be it's
got to hook them in the first couple of
seconds it's got to show people um close
captions most people are watching their
content on mute
you've got to make sure that you're
close enough that you're showing eye
contact You' you've just got seconds and
if that content isn't good enough people
aren't they're just even if they watch
it once if they don't like it if they
don't engage it's it's going to show up
to fewer people is your post clear is it
concise does it maintain people's
attention are you following the rule of
thirds which is
framing is your text properly
spaced Instagram is going to help you
with this you guys so so many of you are
where you're putting your text it's
disappearing on certain people's phones
like we all have every single one of us
watching right now has a differ sized
phone right and so Instagram will show
you where your text is is going to show
up and if it's going to be off the
screen for the most part but not on
every phone so when in doubt make sure
that you're keeping your text aligned it
doesn't need to be at an angle that's
hard for people to read it needs to be
easy for people to read easy for people
to take in and it needs to be on their
screen because if it's hanging off the
screen it just feels like you're not
quite sure how to use the app to be
honest okay and remember close captions
like I said we're watching we don't want
to sit in a room with our volume up and
I mean that's so rude some people do it
but it's so rude and most people are
watching their phones on silent they
turn the volume on if we can grab their
attention with closed captions so lack
of variability and by lack of
variability I mean um every single one
of your post kind of looks like the same
thing so there's a gal who I
follow who films every piece of content
it would be like as if I filmed every
single reel right here and this was
always my background I was always
wearing a black shirt I always had on a
always had used a black mic and then
every single reel was just a different
variation of a talking head you look at
that page you if you're a new person
you're going to look and go oh it's all
the same it's all the same there's no
variation so when we say variation we
mean different types of media that means
a carousel a meme a real a photo photo
Carousel video Carousel it means
changing things up so that when people
look at your page they see regardless of
what type of uh subject matter you post
on it doesn't all look the same it looks
different okay so if they're all only
educational or if they all have the same
look and feel that's going to minimize
the number of people who want to follow
you so you got to mix it up uh number
six is using an outdated strategy you
don't even want to get me started on
this I know that you get DMS from people
saying like hey I can get you real
followers they probably are real
followers but they are either um real
followers who have been stolen from an
account or they are people who are in in
an engagement pod you never listen to me
you never under any circumstances want
to buy engagement which would be
comments likes or followers because all
you have is your
credibility it is my pet peeve I think
it's criminal I think it's very
deceptive and I think it's going to
damage not only will it damage your
reach on Instagram it's going to damage
your reputation um I recently had a a a
guest come to speak on my podcast and
she's I'm gonna tell you the story and
she goes you know I I got this message
from this guy he's a you know really
well-known doctor he's got a huge
podcast and he has over uh over 1.2
million uh followers but I would have to
fly myself out to be on this podcast and
you just like it's tough for the kids
and know but I really feel like this is
a great opportunity I said who is it she
gives me the name I look them
up followers are all bought the
followers are all bought now we have a
service that allows us to put a name in
and I I can see what percentage of the
followers are real now any big count is
going to have between 15 to 20% of their
followers so if you're an account that
has over 100,000 you are likely going to
have just get this you're probably going
to have between 15 to 20% of your
followers that aren't even real it's
true for me it's true for just about
anyone with over 100,000 followers and
that is because these bot Services they
will follow you to try to get your
attention try to get you to engage try
to get your followers to engage with
them it's a spammy tactic but almost
everyone has a certain percentage of
followers who are are uh fake followers
so but fake guess what fake followers do
what they don't do they're never going
to buy from
you so if you're buying fake followers
you're
deceiving people about your influence
and I think that's really going to hurt
your credibility in the long run and I
don't recommend you do it because it's
going to hurt your reach on Instagram
don't buy anything do this the right way
don't do that don't do the follow
unfollow you know someone says like Hey
we're we're doing this big group of us
it's like 50 of us and we're all going
to follow each other don't do that uh
don't do the follow unfollow tactic that
does not work either if you're just
using trending audios I mean that was
really working very well for quite some
time now it's it's still working but it
should not be your only
tactic also be careful you're not always
saying just like read the caption
sometimes you've got to give them all
the information in the real because
people don't like to read you know that
right I think we've probably covered
this so many times but just in case
you're new here it's really really
outdated to have a a profile feed where
everything is matchy matchy it's like
black then white then black then white
then black then white like a grid or
everything looks the same or
everything's color-coded yeah that that
just doesn't appeal to the average
Instagram viewer so you don't want to do
that it's kind of outdated and then of
course you don't need to rely on
hashtags these are all pretty outdated
strategies okay number seven is giving
up too soon growth Tak takes time y'all
it just does if it happened overnight
everybody would have success but it's
persistence that really pays off it's
persistence that allows your message to
to get some traction here's what else it
does it helps you to refine your message
if you give up on your Niche too soon
you'll never really figure out like how
you could have dialed it down more and
the best way to do that here's my extra
bonus tip is get your comments notice
what people are asking about notice what
people are responding to like for
example I posted in one of my reels it
wasn't about castor oil um but I I
mentioned that I was putting castor oil
on my legs to make them
shine and the video was about like you
know like living your best life and and
and still enjoying yourself and your
husband after 50 and I looked at my
comments and there were a significant
number of people asking about the oil
I'm like that's really interesting
that's what people were very interested
in so I used that data that input that
consensus and I thought well I'm going
to make a video just about castor oil
and relate it to my Niche I did that and
it blew up I got so many new followers
from that post now I would not have
known that if I had given up early or if
I wasn't in my
chat if I wasn't looking at the comments
if I wasn't responding to direct message
if I wasn't taking note of like what are
people asking me about so I mean just
take advantage of all the information
that's right there in front of you on
Instagram don't be discouraged new
accounts are just like even an old
account sometimes that goes stale you've
got to be persistent you've got to
double down and make sure that things
are are like really top quality they're
grabbing people's attention that you're
really Niche down pay attention to all
of the things that we talked about and
Implement them there's seven things you
need to make sure that you're doing
thank you so much you guys thanks for
being here I really do appreciate
you bye
[Music]